UG: Front Matters, Formatting and Restructuring (#241)
AY2223S1-CS2103T-W15-1/tp: docs/UserGuide.md

title: User Guide
---

## 1. Welcome to SoConnect's User Guide!

> Everything you need to know about **SoConnect**, an ultimate solution for your everyday contacts and tasks management problem, is finally here!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, you can find everything you need to know about **SoConnect**, the ultimate solution for your everyday contacts and tasks management headaches!
```
Only a suggestion, you can dismiss freely or we can discuss if you want to. My issue here is `is finally here` seems awkward when I read it.

Author: Sounds good to me!

> If you are an **[SoC](#soc) student**, there is a high chance you are probably stressing over lack of social interactions and mounting assignments right now. Well, look no further! SoConnect is built to help you stay better connected to school life by doing the tedious management task, so you can focus on **creating real friends and finishing schoolwork quickly**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are a **[SoC](#soc) student**, you are probably stressing over lack of social interactions and mounting assignments right now. Well, look no further! SoConnect is built to help you stay better connected to school life by doing your tedious management tasks, so you can focus on **creating real friends and finishing schoolwork quickly**. 
```
Only a suggestion, you can dismiss freely or we can discuss if you want to.

Author: It looks good, but I am actually unsure about the `a/an` part. Reason I put an is because while it starts with S, but since we pronounce each letter separately like as-ou-si (SOC), the `as` part sounds like it starts with vowel `a` and hence the an. It's the same reasoning with why we use `a university` instead of `an university` (because uni sounds loke yuni) or `an hour` instead of `a hour`.

> Interested to use SoConnect? Then you are in the right place! In this user guide, we will cover **step-by-step instructions** from installing the app to customising it according to your preference. Whether you are a beginner or an advance user, this guide will solve all your problems, just like our app!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interested to use SoConnect? Then you are in the right place! In this user guide, we will cover **step-by-step instructions** from installing the app to customising it according to your preference. Whether you are a beginner or an advanced user, this guide will solve all your problems, just like our app!
```

Author: Nice catch!

## 2. Table of Contents

<div class="toc-remove-bullet-points">
  * Table of Contents
  {:toc}
</div>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 3. Introduction

SoConnect is a **2-in-1 desktop app for managing contacts and tasks**. It is originally built to help [NUS](#nus) SoC students stay better connected to their school life, in terms of social connections and school tasks.

SoConnect leverages on the simplicity of Command Line Interface ([CLI](#cli)) to optimize your productivity, while still maintaining user-friendliness through its Graphical User Interface ([GUI](#gui)). If you can type fast, SoConnect can get your contact and task management work done faster than even the popular applications such as Microsoft People and To Do!

Let's look at the overview of our main features. 

### 3.1. Contact Management

SoConnect allows you to store all your contact information, so that you no longer need to stress about forgetting someone. You can:
1. Quickly **add, view, edit and delete** your contact.
2. **Sort** your displayed contact list by name, email, address, phone number and tag.

> 3. **Tag** specific people in your contact list, which can also be edited and removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Tag** specific people in your contact list.
```
Unnecessary detail for the overview?

Author: Agree yes

> 4. **Search** efficiently, just like how Google works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Search** efficiently, just like using Google.
```

> 5. What's more, we even let you **customise** how you want the contact list to be shown!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. What's more, we even let you **customise** how you want your contact list to be shown!
```

### 3.2. Todo Management

SoConnect helps you keep track of your [todo](#todo) list, so that you can focus on finishing tasks quickly. You can:
1. Quickly **add, view, edit and delete** your todo.
2. **Filter** your todo according to deadline, tag and priority.
3. **Tag** specific todo in your list, so that you can leverage on our Contact Management feature to find people who might be able to help you finish the task quickly!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 4. Using This Guide

### 4.1. Navigate Around

> As a first time user, we understand that you might be confused on how to even start up the application in the first place. Therefore, you can go to the [Installation](#5-installation) section to download SoConnect, if you have not done so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are a first time user, we understand that you might be confused on how to even start up the application in the first place. Therefore, you can go to the [Installation](#5-installation) section for instructions on how to download and install SoConnect, if you have not done so.
```

Author: The `download and install` seems redundant to me?

Once SoConnect is installed, you can navigate to the [Quickstart](#6-quickstart) section, where we will cover the basics of using SoConnect.

> If you are a returning user, you can head over to the [Command Summary](#command-summary) section for a quick overview of all SoConnect's commands. Alternatively, you can also read the detailed explanation of each command in the [Commands](#commands) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are a returning user, you can head over to the [Command Summary](#command-summary) section for a quick overview of all commands in SoConnect. Alternatively, you can also read the detailed explanation of each command in the [Commands](#commands) section.
```

> Feeling stuck? The [FAQ](#faq) section might help find the answer you are looking for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have a question regarding the app? You might find the answer you are looking for in the [FAQ](#faq) section.
```

You can also refer to the [Glossary](#glossary) section for definitions of commonly used terms in SoConnect.

### 4.2. Icons

In order to help you pay attention, we have used some icons along with highlighted text throughout this guide.

| Icon                          | Meaning                                       |
|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| **:memo: Note**               | You should pay attention to this.             |
| **:bulb: Tip**                | You might find this useful.                   |
| **:information_source: Info** | You can get additional information from this. |
| **:warning: Warning**         | You should be cautious about this.            |
| **:rotating_light: Danger**   | You should pay **extra** attention to this.   |

### 4.3. Formatting and Notation

> In case you are wondering why certain texts are styled differently, here are the meaning behind:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you are wondering why certain texts are styled differently, here are the meaning behind them:
```

> 1. Words in big size, numbered and in purple color are section titles and subtitles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Text that are numbered and in purple font are headers which mark the beginning of a section or subsection of the guide.
```

> 2. **Words in bold** are phrases that we want you to read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Text in bold** are important pieces of information you want to pay extra attention to.
```

Author: I am not sure about the important part. Because if you notice, the bold is actually used to catch the user's attention, more like a promotional tool, I would say.

## 5. Installation

### 5.1. How to Install

1. Ensure you have [Java 11](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/install/overview-jdk-installation.html) installed on your computer.
2. Download the latest `SoConnect.jar` file from our [release page](https://github.com/AY2223S1-CS2103T-W15-1/tp/releases).
3. Copy the file to an empty folder you want to use as the _home folder_ for SoConnect. You can find more on how to do that [here](https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/how-to-create-folder-on-desktop/#:~:text=Create%20a%20folder%20on%20a%20Windows%20desktop,-Creating%20a%20folder&text=Step%201%3A%20Right%2Dclick%20a,a%20name%20of%20your%20own.).
4. Double-click the file to start SoConnect. You can head over to the [Quickstart](#6-quickstart) section for a guided tutorial on how to use the app.

<div markdown="block" class="alert alert-primary">
**:memo: Note** <br/> <br/> 
Empty folder is needed because all additional storage data and files will be saved in this folder.
</div>

### 5.2. Operating Systems

SoConnect currently can run smoothly on these operating systems:

1. Ubuntu
2. MacOS
3. Windows

> You only need to download [`SoConnect.jar`](https://github.com/AY2223S1-CS2103T-W15-1/tp/releases), regardless of which one is your operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download and use [`SoConnect.jar`](https://github.com/AY2223S1-CS2103T-W15-1/tp/releases) on any of the above operating systems. 
```

* `list` followed by `delete 2` deletes the 2nd contact in your SoConnect.
* `find Betsy` followed by `delete 1` deletes the 1st contact in the results of the `find` command.

### Clearing all contacts : `clear`
<br>

#### 7.2.7. Clearing all contacts : `clear`

Clears all contacts from your SoConnect.

Format: `clear`

> ## Tag Management Features

Reviewer 2: Isn't Tag features of a different category than contact features?

Author: Please see the explanation below

* `customise show a/` The application now shows addresses in the list of contacts.
* `customise show p/ t/` The application now shows phone numbers and tags in the list of contacts.

> ## Todo Management Features

Reviewer 2: Isnt todo features separated from contact features?

Author: Yes. That's why it's deleted?

| **Delete Todo** | `todo delete INDEX` <br> e.g. `todo delete 3`                                                                                                                                                                        |
| **Clear Todo**  | `todo clear`                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **Show Todo**   | `todo show`<br> `todo show today` <br> `todo show date/DATE` <br> `todo show date/DATE to DATE` <br> `todo show t/TAG` <br> `todo show pr/Priority` <br> e.g. `todo show`, `todo show pr/high`, `todo show t/CS2100` |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> ## 10. Glossary

Reviewer: The spacing between each glossary definition seems to be excessive? I don't reckon that we should use headers for the definitions to reduce the spacing. Additionally, making them headers causes them to appear in the TOC which might not be desirable

Author: Yes I recognize that. I was actually torn because I want to keep the consistency (big header - sub header - etc), but also notice that it might be excessive. But yes, generally should be no problem to have the glossary words as normal words.

Reviewer 3: Yup, the spacing is a bit excessive, either we follow the one in DG or we can create a table for it.
